<h1> Multi-Agent Reinforcement Learning (MARL) for Swarm Intelligence </h1>
  
<p>Introduction: As computer scientists and engineers in the field of artificial intelligence, much of the inspiration for different algorithms necessary to solve complex problems has been drawn from nature. Through centuries of evolution and learning, nature has developed its own catalog of algorithms to address complex and dynamic problems, ensuring each species’ ability to survive in an ever-changing environment against a breadth of threats. Drawing from this inspiration, concepts like neural networks, expert systems, and evolutionary algorithms have revolutionized how we address many challenges. This article seeks to dive deeper into one of those concepts, swarm intelligence. With the development of small relatively cheap processors with onboard communications, the potential of swarm intelligence has grown over the last five years and warrants more research and development.</p> 

<p><b>Problem Statement</b>: One of the biggest challenges of developing a swarm intelligent algorithm is the steps necessary to engineer swarm behavior to achieve the desired emergent behavior against an almost infinite combination of environmental variables. This paper will seek to address that challenge by demonstrating how reinforcement learning can be used to train a swarm intelligent algorithm. First, it will provide an overview of the concept behind swarm intelligence and reinforcement learning. Next, it offers a demonstration of how a multi-agent reinforcement learning can assist in engineering a swarm intelligent solution to address a optimum path problem. Finally, comparing the performance of a human engineered swarm algorithm to one engineered through reinforcement learning we can see the advantages and disadvantages of this concept.</p>
<p><b>Why Swarm Intelligence?</b> Each algorithm across the artificial intelligence taxonomy is optimized for a particular problem; therefore, an answer we need to address up front is what value swarm intelligent algorithms offer. Swarm intelligent algorithms are particularly useful at solving search and optimization problems; optimizing a swarm’s behavior to find the global maxima or minima based on a pre-established criterion. In nature we see examples of swarm intelligent behavior enhancing the chance of survival for hundreds of animal species including bird flocks, fish schooling, ant colonies, and bee swarms . As an example, most have seen similar behavior to the flock of starling birds in the figure below.</p>


